Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming. In the previous tutorial
we talked a lot about vectors and we
created some pictures and I know there
might have been a pile of information we
learned quite a few new functions well
today we'll quickly recap what we learned
last time and then I will introduce you
to the square brackets going to be quite
a short tutorial but also it is going to
be quite an insightful one so let's
start by recapping what we learned last
time. We learned three main functions for
creating vectors one is a combined where
you take the letter C which is the name
of the function and you put in some
numbers or characters or whatever you
want to store in your vector and basically
combine them into a vector all right
number two was the sequence function
where you specify the start of the
sequence by the way it doesn't have to
be one we've been using one most intense
but can be any number and the end of the
sequence and then the step of the
sequence as the third parameter and this
is going to be sequence and finally
number three that we learn to the last
time was the replicate function so if we
want to replicate something whether it's
a number a character or even a vector we
specify that object here and then we say
how many times we want to replicate it
and that is replicate so now for an all
these three together I will get three
vectors, 1 and number one number two are
a numeric and as you can see here is
this first one is just combination of
the parameters that we passed into the
function.
The second one is indeed the sequence
that we wanted from 201 to 250 of the
step of 11 as you can see 250 was not
included and that's because 11 doesn't
feed it evenly into the interval between
201 and 250 but that's ok
we're always guaranteed that we will be
within the interval and finally zed a
character vector of three elements with
the word
hi ! three times ok so those are the
three ways we learned how to create
vectors now what will learn today
is how to access individual elements of
a vector. Let me explain what I mean
let's say we have a vector W with the
following elements, a b c d and e now this
is a vector representing the start of
the alphabet if I run that and I printed
out I'll get the letters of here so it's
and a vector of five letters now how do
I access these letters individually? How
can I get access to the letter A by
itself from the spectrum well in order
to do that we need to use square
brackets so you need to type in the name
of the vector which is W and then within
square brackets you need to type in the
number of the element you on taxes and
as you remember especially if you're
coming from another programming language
background liberation or education and
our starts with one so we're going to
put a 1 here and that will give us
access to the very first element.
There we go we've accessed the letter A
same thing we can access the second
element which would B, we can access the
third element and so on.
Now a good thing to know is that the
square brackets in R are more versatile
than in other programming languages so
if I want to for instance get access to
all the letters except for the first one
then I'll type in w minus one and I'll
have bcde then if I want to get all
access to all the letters except for the
middle one
I will type in w minus 3 right? So I'll
have ABDE and this is a
vector I can put this vector into
another variable so I can say v, w-3
and I will have another vector over here
abde and that is the video of R
because it operates and vectors it is
normal, it is expected that sometimes
when you access even a vector but you
specify what you don't want in return
you will get back
vector again alright so what else can we
do here? We can access several elements,
so we can say W and we can say element 1
2 & 3 so we'll put in a sequence 134 the
US that's a one two three
sequence and now if we run this, we know
that we want to ABC on it so basically
we're passing on this is a vector 123 is
a vector replacing a vector into the
square brackets and it is being used to
tell the vector W which elements are
required to be returned which are ABC so
we can do that we can do a different
come several elements so we can say we
want 325 for instance so this will give
us a vector 3:5 so there we go cde
right and so this gives you the thought
that you can pass vectors into the
square bracket so let's take it up a
notch right let's not just use the colon
operator let's say we want to use the
combine operator so here we'll create a
vector and we will say we want number
one, number one, number three and number
five right? So if I run this picture of
three elements 135 and if I run this now
we get ACE, so we got the first to third
and the fifth okay and what else can we
do? We can do the same thing with negative numbers.
Of course we can do the same thing with
negative numbers we can say we want the
whole vector except four minus two and
minus 4 run that we get the same result
AC so it's exactly the same because
we're passing on this picture of two numbers
minus two and minus 4 and it's excluding
those now can we use the colon operator
or with negative numbers of course we
can so if I create a if I just say minus
3 2-5 and around that it will give me a
vector minus 3 45 and if I run this now
w minus 3 minus 5, so just give me
letters A and B so now if I create a
vector with w 1:2, we'll get the same
result and be so as you can see there
are multiple ways to achieve the same
result in r especially when accessing
elements of a vector and that's how it
works basically so you've got many
different options and you can
put in a different parameters into the
square brackets to receive what your
officer what you're looking for
now to finish off this tutorial there
are two things I would like to mention,
first thing is that in this tutorial we
will learn how to access the individual
elements of a vector using the square
bracket. It's a good skill to have. It's
good to know especially these are useful
when you are putting a negative number
in because that's these are this
information might come in handy when
we're dealing with data frames further
down in the course but at the same time
what you will notice through this
course and through your work in R is
that you won't be needing to access
individual elements of vectors that
often. It might come as a shock to a lot
of people coming from other backgrounds
and programming especially C, C++ and
languages like like like that like java
and so on but R is a vector driven
language and a lot of things happen in
vectorized form so won't run too far
ahead here but in the next tutorial you
will find out exactly why you won't be
needing these square brackets that much
so stay tuned for that
that'll be a very exciting tutorial can't
wait for you guys to sit and the other
thing I wanted to mention is that you
are now entering the world of R and
this is the part of your journey where
if you haven't yet you're going to
experience how steep the learning curve
of R is and even though we've done
everything we can to smoothing out a lot
you will still experience that it much
at this space exact stage that we're in
right now it might start to become a bit
more difficult to keep up before these
concepts that I'm literally throwing at
you in these tutorials like the last
time with we spoke about three functions
right so it takes time to understand
these so what I want to ask you is for
you to become very very exploratory and
become very, I'll ask a lot of questions like
ask yourself a lot of questions what
what can I do what can I do what I what
I want to further explore in R, so
experiment a lot, that is how you can
master this programming
language and get over this very
steep part of the learning curve
you need to keep practicing and you need
to switch your imagination on and say
for instance
ok so what are like Kirill didn't explain
what happens if I put a number greater
than the number of elements here so if I
put in w7 for instance or what if I put
in w102 or what if i put in w minus 7 or
what if i put in w0 what happens there
like ask these questions try to figure
these things out experimental maybe
looking things up
ask me in the course, ask fellow
students in the course because you need
to keep your brain working keep your
brain active in regards to this
programming language and even these two
functional group around there is so much
you can learn about them there's so many
different combinations that you can use
about them and all of this times in into
a very interesting concept that I
learned about quite recently which is
called lygometry, lygometry is the
study of measuring what you don't know
so quantifying what you don't know so
lygo is from the word shadow and metri
is from measure so measuring the shadow
measuring what unknown and there's a
very good TED talk on youtube by me into
funny on the commentary he actually came
up with this term I highly recommend
checking it out and maybe that'll
inspire you to ask a lot more questions
and experiment a lot with this
programming language and I look forward
to seeing you in the next tutorial
until then the coding.